---
title: 'Monique Walter 2.12.1941 – † 22.02.2010'
date: '2010-02-23T20:00:03+01:00'
type: posts
cover: https://www.waltercedric.com/family/monique-walter-1.webp
summary: "My Mother died from a **Progressive Supranuclear Palsy** (**PSP**) yesterday, Monday 22nd February. She has fight this decease nearly 3 years long. Everything has started on November 2006, after many walking and balance problems, when she was receiving the result of a Magnetic Resonance Imaging. She was affected by a PSP"
categories:
  - Family
tags:
 - family
 - death
---
My Mother died from a **Progressive Supranuclear Palsy** (**PSP**) yesterday, Monday 22nd February.

She has fight this decease nearly 3 years long. Everything has started on November 2006, after many walking and balance problems, when she was receiving the result of a Magnetic Resonance Imaging. She was affected by [something call a **Progressive Supranuclear Palsy** or PSP]

She..

- Lost the ability to walk in 2006, was blocked in bed since then,
- Was severely choking while eating during the last 8 months,
- Was no more able to drink any liquids since 19th November 2009,
- Was only able to eat 5 or 6 yogurt per day till mid January.

I spent the last year and a half travelling every week end to my parents in France, in order to take care of her. And I was in the last 3 months a minimum of 24 hours per week in hospital, every single day between Christmas and new Year, for sure helping her to live a bit longer by taking time to feed her.

The last 5 days, she was fighting in a near coma state (*Paraplegia*), <span style="text-decoration: underline;">for every breath</span>. She seems to have wait for us to be in the room on Monday before slowly stopping breathing at 3:05PM.

There is a hell lot of ways to die, surely this one is definitely not one of the best. I will always remember this last few words of her (she was not able to make any sentences since months), I was asking her if she wants something more, she respond “hope” (“de l’espoir”).

I will take this week off and hopefully be able to take more time to maintain my homepage and all my Joomla! extensions in the coming weeks.

## Extrait du journal communal
C'est une maladie orpheline très invalidante qui a emporté Monique Walter, dans des circonstances particulièrement dramatiques.
Née à Mulhouse, le 2 décembre 1941, Monique Spiess se marie en 1963, avec Antoine Walter. Vendeuse en pâtisserie de profession, elle élève les deux enfants du couple, Cédric et Loïc, nés en 1973 et 1975, tout en secondant son mari, pendant de longues années, dans le réputé magasin « Broque-Antique », que les époux tiennent place de la Paix. Partageant la même passion pour les beaux objets anciens, ils fréquentent ensemble toutes les puces et brocantes de la région
Malheureusement, les ravages de la maladie ne leur laissent guère de répit. Paralysée depuis quatre ans, Monique souffre énormément, tout comme les siens, impuissants devant le mal. Après l'avoir soignée à la maison pendant plusieurs années, son mari Antoine doit se résoudre à la faire hospitaliser en novembre dernier.
Monique Walter s'est éteinte le 22 février, au centre hospitalier de Mulhouse. Ses cendres reposent dans la tombe de ses parents, au vieux cimetière.
