---
id: 2490
title: 'Site down 01-02-2006'
date: '2006-04-29T12:35:28+02:00'
author: 'Cédric Walter'



tags:
    - homepage
    - incidents
---

# 01 February 2006**

My site has been put offline because of the workload it put on my provider infrastructure…

It seems that the {SEO/SEF} engine ([www.open-sef.org](www.open-sef.org)) combined with the number of visitors (1300 daily), hits (1.8M monthly), bandwidth (11 to 16Gb monthly) stress the mySQL server too much. My site also run on a machine where there is already 90 others clients. My recent popularity is related to the open source development I am doing for #Joomla (7 GPL projects hosted at {www.joomla.org}):

# \* com\_akobookPlus** Modified version of the great akobook from arthur konze, This version now protect JOOMLA Guestbook entry from spammers using: – com\_security (captcha), – com\_hashcash (crypto hashkey), – com\_bayesianNaiveFilter (learning filters) all these methods can be defeat through…using advanced techniques

# \* com\_akocommentPlus** Modified version of the great akocomment from arthur konze, This version now protect JOOMLA comments from spammers using: – com\_security (captcha), – com\_hashcash (crypto hashkey), – com\_bayesianNaiveFilter (learning filters) all these methods can be defeat through…using advanced techniques

# \* com\_bayesianSpamFiltering** A spam filter that evaluates email message content to determine the probability that it is spam. Bayesian filters are adaptable and can learn to identify new patterns of spam by analyzing incoming email.. Instead of identifying subject line or headers of the email, Bayesian filter will review the content of the email to prevent or block spamming. Bayesian filtering is the process of using Bayesian statistical methods to classify documents into categories.

# \* com\_hashcash** Hashcash technology for #Joomla Forcing the spammer to pay the price (computing power) before submitting rubish to Your homepage (comments, guestbook for example). The user will have to create a new cryptographic value of a hidden field (Javascript code provided) and that may take 1 to 2 seconds, but may be more with RSA 1024…. This also do not allow robot to easily submit code without parsing Your HTML page before… Hashcash definition: A sender of non-spam posting attached a hidden field from his post which proves that he has invested a modest amount of computer time into solving a small puzzle, often involving the recipient’s email address. The receiver can, at negligible computational cost, verify that a sender had solved the puzzle. This can be regarded as a form of numerical stamp, where the ‘cash’ part is the effort invested by the sender. The theory is that spammers, whose business model relies on their ability to send large numbers of emails with very little cost per message, cannot afford this investment into each individual piece of spam they send. Receivers can verify whether a sender made such an investment and use the results to help filter email.

# \* com\_Log4php** Consistent and quality logging at a glance for JOOMLA Log4php is a php port of Log4j, the most popular #Java logging framework (see Log4J for details). It has been packed for #Joomla by me. Home of Log4PHP at Apache.logging \* Configuration through xml and properties file (same structure as log4j). \* File, RollingFile, DailyFile, Echo, Console, Mail, PEAR::Db, PHP error, Syslog or NT events and Socket appenders. \* Simple, TTCC, Pattern, Html and Xml Layouts. \* Nested (NDC) and Mapped (MDC) Diagnostic Contexts. \* Switchable internal debug.

# \* com\_securityimages** Security Images or CAPTCHA for #Joomla Ever been to a site where you had to register and the registration form required that you type in the same phrase that is found in a hard-to-read image? #Joomla has now this possibility thanks to my component com\_securityimages. CAPTCHA definition: A captcha (an acronym for "completely automated public Turing test to tell computers and humans apart") is a type of challenge-response test used in computing to determine whether or not the user is human. The term was coined in 2000 by Luis von Ahn, Manuel Blum, and Nicholas J. Hopper of Carnegie Mellon University, and John Langford of IBM. A common type of captcha requires that the user type the letters of a distorted and/or obscured sequence of letters or digits that appears on the screen.

# \* com\_joomlacloud** Tag Cloud technology for #Joomla A tag cloud (more traditionally known as a weighted list in the field of visual design) is a visual depiction of content tags used on a website. Often, more frequently used tags are depicted in a larger font or otherwise emphasized, while the displayed order is generally alphabetical. Thus both finding a tag by alphabet and by popularity is possible. Selecting a single tag within a tag cloud will generally lead to a collection of items that are associated with that tag.

\* **And the number of pages known**: {59900 sites} \[Google\] – {15200 sites} \[Altavista\],  
\* **The list of referer** {HERE,} with some prestigious like www.xboxmediacenter.com  
\* My Google Ranking: 5/10 which is huge for a personal page.  
\* Domain: www.waltercedric.com is reserved till 2015

Basically, I will have to go from a mutualised Server web hosting (45&amp;euro;/yearly) to a Dedicated Server web hosting (159&amp;euro;/monthly)

Months Unique visitors Visites Pages Hits Bandwidth  
Jan 2006 25391 32363 123894 1861073 10.70 Gb

{detailled statistics available here}, statistics from 2005 available

# If You want to**  
\* Sponsor me and take some of the costs of hosting, I will look carefully at all offers,  
\* Have ideas on how to resolve this issue,  
\* Have experience something similar,

I stay in touch with my current provider : {www.cineteck-fr.com} and will hopefully have more info soon. Please come back soon. Thanks for your patience.