---

title: Chaos
date: '2004-09-01T23:23:32+02:00'
author: 'Cédric Walter'



tags:
- 'RC helicopter'
- Techniques
---

# Chaos

Interesting dicussion on [www.runryder.com](http://www.runryder.com/)

# Definition:

Piro Flips with a rotating motion..meaning you would keep executing the flip at a different point, i.e (12:00, 3:00. 6:
00, 9:00, 12:00).

# Credit to Augusto (www.)

> "*A good controlled sustained piroueting flip will have the rotor disc flipping in the same direction while the tail
pirouettes around the main shaft axis.  
> Not too many people can do a good sustained piroflip. Most people piroflip and kind of "catch it" over and over so the
disc is not flipping in the same direction.  
> Now a chaos is a sustained piroflip where the pilot purposely and in a controlled manner does a maintained piroflip
and slowly rotates the flipping axis 360 degrees to a full turn of the flipping axis.  
> The big deal about this maneuver is that it shows that you have complete control of the sustained piroflip in any
orientation of the flipping rotation.  
> I have never seen anyone do a real chaos and Curtis told me he either saw or performed a good one only once or
twice.  
> Lately I'm practicing piroflipping rolling circles or maybe simply called piruetting rolling circles as a way to
practice for when I try a real chaos. It will be the same as far as orientations is concerned but without the
translational movement. Keeping it in a single place while slowly rotating the direction of the flipping is pretty
tough.*
>
>  Regarding the circle, It's important to understand that in the pirouetting flip the numbers of pirouettes per flip
> are not related or set in stone. You can describe a full flip while doing say 10 pirouettes or even a ful flip with say
> 6 pirouettes. Obviously given a certain constant pirouetting speed the lower the number of pirouettes the faster the
> flipping portion of the mainblades disc.
>
>  The factor that controls how fast the flipping happens is the total amount of deflection away fom the center you
> apply. In other words the larger the "stirring circle" the higher the swashplate deflection hence the faster the
> flipping rate. Doing very small "stirring circles" in the cyclic will achieve slowly flipping piroflip that has a
> relatively fast pirouetting rate. Conversely applying a large deflection away from the center i.e. large "stirring
> circle" will make it look like a pretty fast flip with proportionally fast pirouettes.
>
>  What I call "piro-cheating" while piroflipping is when people let it rest for a while while in the horizontal disc
> portion of the flip whether it's right side up or inverted for about two full pirouettes and then continue with the
> piroflip. They let it rest a bit and then apply upwards momentum so that they can do the piroflip while hanging between
> upwards pushes. That makes the piroflip a lot easier but also a lot uglier. Doing a piroflip where the flipping of the
> disc has a constant rate of flip is a completely different animal. It's obvious that there has to be upwards momentum
> applied but people need to learn how to make it happen without stopping the flipping portion to regain momentum. There's
> a world of pitch management that happens in that small amount of time.
>
>  Take a look at this clip and notice that the flipping stays constant and there's no resting time when the disc is
> horizontal. Also in this case the deflection circle is small and as you can see there is a high number of fast
> pirouettes for each flip. Notice also how the direction or orientation of the flipping portion stays somehow constant
> throughout the piroflip. The clip is not too good an example but it servers the purpose of illustrating the mechanisms
> of what I'm explaining.  
> "

Totally agree with Augusto's posts. Work on your timing first to get the flips so the rotor disk constantly flips in the
same direction. Then you can work on rotating the flipping direction.

Other than increasing cyclic at a particular point to 'shift' the pirouetting flip or the chaos in a certain direction,
I find thottle/pitch management important to be able to control the whole manouver. After increasing cyclic of your
desired direction,depending on how far/fast I want to travel, I would also add a little extra throttle to the flip but
in the direction I want to move. This is more important for when you do piro-flippin' loops or fly around doing constant
piroeutting flips.

# Piroflip and Chaos Practice**

Credit to Pete Niotis

> *"PiroFlip Practice: Keep doing a repeated async pirouetting loop in the same spot. Make smaller/tighten as you
> progress…that's it!  
> Chaos Practice: A series of very small/tight Async Pirouetting Loops where each complete little async pirouetting loop
> keeps being placed/rotated in a different location relative to the flight line. For example…spool up heli side in (nose
> right for this example), climb to a comfortable height let's say 10-20 feet and go right into a tail stand, begin a
> constant pirouette dropping and forming a radius within a few decending feet while pirouetting and begin forming another
> pirouetting radius travelling to your right as to make heli ascend knife edge while pirouetting where now the outside of
> disc is facing right as you get to the top, at the top or end of the climb start adding negative collective while still
> pirouetting which leads you to the same spot you started with the exception that now the inside of disc is facing left
> side of field and here's where you would drop to start another tight async pirouetting loop but you would also add the
> necessary cyclic inputs to place next loop at 12:00 or 6:00 position all dependant on which way you prefer or which way
> of rotation compliments the flow of your chaos. Keep in mind that placing each async pirouetting loop 90 degrees from
> last position will probably not be as good as placing each 45 degrees from the last position. To simplify understanding
> all this…practice these async pirouetting loops bigger at the beginning and just keep tightening them up and making them
> smaller as you progress and you'll soon have a chaos."*null