---
title: "Young Generation Electronic YGE Saphir 155 ESC"
summary: ""
type: posts
date: 2024-06-17T10:30:17+01:00
cover: https://www.waltercedric.com/rchelicopter/Regler-YGE-Saphir-155.webp
summary: "Young Generation Electronic YGE Saphir 155 ESC"
tags:
  - rc-helicopter
  - rc-helicopters
  - flybarless-systems
  - fbl-controllers
  - helicopter-gyro
  - rc-helicopter-setup
  - flight-controller
  - rc-helicopter-electronics
  - helicopter-tuning
  - rc-helicopter-technology
  - flybarless-advantages
  - self-leveling-helicopter
  - rc-helicopter-tips
  - hobbyist-blog
  - remote-control-flying
  - helicopter-community
  - rc-helicopter-enthusiasts
  - sab-raw-580
  - sab
categories:
  - RC helicopter
---
The YGE ESC because has a special feature called ampere limit. It can save your components from overheating or pulling too much amps.

{{< notice warning>}}
{{< warning >}}
{{< /notice >}}

{{< notice tip>}}
{{< heli-tips >}}
{{< /notice >}}

## Updating the firmware
{{< notice tip>}}Work in Progress{{< /notice >}}

## Wiring the ESC
{{< notice tip>}}Work in Progress{{< /notice >}}

## Installing the ESC
{{< notice tip>}}Work in Progress{{< /notice >}}

## Features
* 155A continuous / 250A burst
* 4 to 8s LiPo, incl under voltage protection by power reduction
* BEC 5,0V – 8,4V
* BEC 12A continuous, 25A Peak
* 32-bit CPU
* Frequency: 16 to 32 kHz
* Speed limit: 240.000 rpm (2- Poles)
* Dimensions (mm): 82 x 43,5 x 26
* Weight without/with cables: 122g/178g

### Security
* Temperature and overload warning
* Anti- flash: decreases the closing spark
* The specified current is the maximum continuous full power current
* Disconnectable under voltage detection

### Computer
* Basic -Programming with mode programming
* Fine adjustment and selection of telemetry log with the PC Setup
* Update capable (optional USB-Adapter available)
* Suitable USB-adapter optionally available

### Telemetry
“T” for Telemetry. following protocols are currently compatible:
* Mikado Vbar Control Classic/Touch/Evo,
* Graupner HoTT V4,
* Jeti ExBUS,
* Multiplex Sensor BUS V2,
* YGE-protocol
* BL Heli (BETA firmware as of today 19.01.2024)
And via YGE TexY additionaly:
* Futaba
* Spektrum
* FrSky
* Core
* MSH Brain 2
* Spirit FBL

### Soft start
 * Super soft startup for scale-helicopters possible (60 sec.)
 * Automatic or 6 step adjustable timing

### Brake
**Adjustable EMK brake**
When you reduce the throttle input to zero, the braking function can bring the motor to a stop quickly instead of allowing it to coast to a stop. Useful just before a crash :-)

EMK (Electromagnetic Kinetic) Brake: EMK brake is a term that can be associated with electromagnetic brakes, which are devices that use the magnetic force generated by the electromagnet to provide braking torque. Electromagnetic brakes are sometimes used in various applications to quickly and effectively stop or hold motion.

**F3A (Acro brake (brake force control infinitely adjustable)**
Allow users to adjust the braking force according to their preferences or the specific requirements of their applications. This feature is often appreciated in precision flying, such as in aerobatic.

**Active Freewheeling** This technique involves controlling the freewheeling of the motor, which reduces the motor's braking effect. Active freewheeling can be used to optimize efficiency and reduce heat generation.

## Regler YGE Saphir 155 manuals
* [YGE Saphir 155 manual](/rchelicopter/sab-raw-580/YGE-Saphir125155-eng.pdf)

# Resources
https://www.rotorflight.org/docs/Tutorial-Quickstart/Introduction







